---
title: "Showing ERC-20 Transfers"
description: "Showing ERC-20 Transfers"
lead: "Can I show all token transfers on a contract?"
date: 2021-04-13T08:00:02-04:00
lastmod: .lastmod
categories:
- Tutorials
tags: ['tutorials']
draft: false
images: []
contributors: ["Thomas Jay Rush"]
weight: 954
---

A TrueBlocks recipe to show every ERC20 Transfer event from a given smart contract.

**Note:** The following assumes you have a copy of (either by having built it yourself or downloaded it) the TrueBlocks Appearance Index. These instructions also assume that the address you're querying is an ERC 20 smart contract.

## Preliminaries

To get started, we want to extract (from the TrueBlocks index) a list of every transaction that our address has ever appeared in.

```[bash]
chifra list 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da
```

This produces a list of 2,129 appearances (at the time of this writing). Each appearances is a pair of integers detailing the `blockNumber` and `transactionIndex` of the transaction. Note that other methods of getting such a list (such as EtherScan APIs) return far fewer transactions. We will explain this in a later post.

Next, we want to export (to the screen) the transactional details of these appearances. We do this in `csv` format.

```[bash]
chifra export --fmt csv 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da
```

The above command generates the same 2,129 records, but this time it's showing the details of the transactions.

**Note:** The `list` command is called automatically when you run the `export` command. You don't have to do it separately. We are showing it here only to make the distinction.

The `--fmt` option may be used by any `chifra` command. It instructs the tools to export data in one of three formats: `txt`, `csv` or `json`. We'll intersperse this option below.

Let's see what happens if we export event (or log) detail instead of transactional detail of these 2,129 transactions.

## Focusing on Events / Logs

We can display the events for a given address using the `--logs` option:

```[bash]
chifra export --fmt csv --logs 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da
```

This takes a bit longer to finish, and it generates 8,100 records.

**Question:** Why is there so many more events than transactions?

**Answer:** Because many transactions generate more than a single event.

**Question:** Is it possible to speed things up?

**Answer:** Yes. You may speed up the `export` tool by adding the `--cache_txs` option. This will put the node data into the TrueBlocks cache. This speeds up operation of TrueBlocks by 20-30x over querying the node directly, but takes up additional hard drive space.

## Articulating the Result

Before we move on, let's talk about articulation.

We'll add an option to our query called `--articulate`. The `--articulate` option turns "ugly blockchain data into human-readable text". (Try the command above both with and without `--articulate` to see the difference.)

```[bash]
chifra export --fmt csv --logs --articulate 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da
```

## Filtering the Results

The above command generates 8,100 log entries. This includes every event *of any type* that our address had *anything* to do with. That is, this includes any event generated by any smart contract in which our address appears even if our address didn't generate that event.

We're going to briefly switch the commands to `json` output in order to see what I mean. `JSON` format shows all the data, whereas `txt` and `csv` show only selected (and customizable) fields.

The next command extracts the addresses of the smart contracts that emitted any of those 8,100 events:

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --fmt json 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da | grep -i address
```

You can see there are various addresses here. It shows all smart contracts that emitted any event in which our address appears. 'Appears' means the address either generated (emitted) the event or the address shows up in one of the fields of an event emitted by some other contract.

We want to limit the result to include only those events *emitted* by our smart contract.

We do this by including the `--emitter` option.

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --emitter --fmt json 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da | grep -i address
```

And now, we see only our address as the emitter addresses. If we remove the `grep` and return to using `csv`:

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --emitter --fmt csv 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da
```

we now only see 3,317 events (again, at the time of this writing).

## The Unix philosophy

Following the Unix philosphy of stringing together a data pipeline...

First, let's look at the first line of the data in order to see the names of the data fields:

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --fmt csv 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da | head -1
```

This produces

```[csv]
"blocknumber","transactionindex","logindex","address","topic0","topic1","topic2","topic3","data","type","compressedlog"
```

We are interested in the `blockNumber`, `transactionIndex`, and `compressLog` fields, so we use the Linux command `cut` to extract these columns:

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --fmt csv 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da | cut -d, -f1,2,11-100
```

And now we're starting to get somewhere. You can see we've extract only events for our contract and we start to see the usefulness of articulation.

Before we proceed, notice that we could build a histogram of the generated events if we wished:

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --fmt csv 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da | tr '"' ' ' | cut -d',' -f11-100 | cut -d'(' -f1 | sort | uniq -c | sort -n -r
```

which produces the following table

| Count | Event            |
| ----- | ---------------- |
| 3135  | Transfer         |
| 1325  | Sync             |
| 1214  | Swap             |
| 1075  | Approval         |
| 485   | Deposit          |
| 350   | Withdrawal       |
| 272   | Claimed          |
| 90    | Mint             |
| 84    | Staked           |
| 42    | Withdrawn        |
| 21    | Burn             |
| 6     | Sent             |
| 5     | RoleGranted      |
| 2     | TransferSingle   |
| 2     | RoleAdminChanged |
| 1     | Trade            |
| 1     | PairCreated      |
| 1     | OrderPlaced      |
| 1     | Fill             |
| 1     | EthPurchase      |

## How Many Transfers?

And finally, we've arrived where we've been headed.

A list of all `Transfers` events emitted by a given ERC20 address **ON THE COMMAND LINE AGAINST OUR OWN LOCALLY RUNNING NODE**:

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --fmt csv 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da | tr '"' ' ' | cut -d',' -f1,2,11-100 | grep Transfer
```

How many of them are there?

```[bash]
chifra export --logs --articulate --fmt csv 0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da | tr '"' ' ' | cut -d',' -f1,2,11-100 | grep Transfer | wc
```

You figure it out!

## A Note on Using the API

You can do the same exact analysis with the `chifra serve` API.

First, start the API in a separate terminal window by running

```[bash]
chifra serve
```

The server serves its API on port :8080 by default.

Return to the first window to run the following curl command.

Additionally, understand that the TrueBlocks API mirrors exactly the command line options for each tool. List all the available tools with `chifra --help`. And for any individual tool, list its options with `&lt;tool name&gt; --help`. Call one of the tools through the API by attaching the tool name followed by any options in regular URL format.

For example, the above command-line query could be re-written as a curl command thus

```[bash]
curl "http://localhost:8080/export?addrs=0x03fdcadc09559262f40f5ea61c720278264eb1da&logs&articulate&fmt=csv&maxRecords=10000" \
 | tr '"' ' ' | cut -d',' -f1,2,11-100 | grep Transfer | wc
```

Notice (1) prepend addresses and other positional parameters with the item's name (in this case, `addrs`) and (2) attach the `maxRecords=10000` option, as the API only returns 250 records by default.

The API produces `json` data by default, so you must include the `fmt=csv` option to your curl command if you wish to pipe the data through a command line tool such as `cut`, `head`, `sed` or `grep` (unless you use the JSON parser `jq` which is highly recommended for JSON data wrangling).

Have at it and Cheerio. Here's hoping only happy data comes your way.
